CONCEPT
	levels


LAST UPDATE
	Mateese, 15-Feb-94, 21:00 MET


DESCRIPTION
	The basic idea is that players are measured just by their
	experience. Thus the setting of their 'level' (P_LEVEL) is
	completely up to the guild they are members of.

	For those players who doesn't want to join any guild, the good
	old 'Adventurers Guild' offers the traditional 20 levels.

	The hierarchy system of Nightfall is based on the 'wiz level',
	which is no player-property but instead maintained by the
	/secure/master.

	The system looks as following:

	Wizlevel  Remarks
	   0       Players, normal player abilities.
	 10-19     Learner, apprentice wizards
	 20-29     Wizard
	 30-39     Domain Lords and Vice Lords
	 40-49     Archwizards, Vice-Archwizards
	 50-59     "Sourcerors"
	 >=60      Demi-Gods, Gods


	Players are the normal players and the 'high level' players,
	i.e. players with more than 1 Meg XP.
	The 'level' (P_LEVEL) of the player is a completely guild
	specific value and not mandatory at all. However, for
	comparison purposes exists in internal P_REAL_LEVEL which is
	computed from the players experience and solved quests.
	Players with a 'real level' of more than 19 are 'high level
	players'.

	If a high level player wants to become a wizard, it has to ask for
	promotion to 'apprentice wizardhood'. The promotion can't
	happen automatically, but must be approved by a domain-wizard.
	An 'appentice wizard' or 'learner' has full wizard powers with
	the only exception that it's not possible to load/clone the
	objects it wrote. Since the code is nevertheless compiled, the
        learner has the ability to learn correct LPC w/o the danger of
        doing harm.
	This phase lasts at least 2 hours of being online before the
	next promotion step can be performed.

	The learner can become a full-fledged 'wizard' by promotion of
	a domain vice or domain lord. Ideally the newly born wizard
	joins the domain of the promoting domain master.
	Domain-less wizards have wiz level 20, domain-wizards 25.

	A wizard can become 'domain vice' or 'domain lord' by
	promotion of an (vice) archwizard (or in case of promotion to
	'domain vice' by the domain lord itself).
	A domain vice has wiz level 30, a domain lord 35.

	Archwizards and Vice Archwizards have to be promoted someone
	with higher wiz level. Vice Archwizards (wiz level 40) itself
	may be promoted by Archwizards (level 45).

	In detail: any wizard with wiz level >= 40 may set the wiz
	level of any being, as long the wiz levels in question
	are less than its own wiz level. 
	The only exception is that an (Vice) Arch may demote itself.


	For internal computations the mudlib uses a thing called
	'general level': this is a standard level computed from a
	players experience. It is used for internal computations of
	the player's abilities.
	It is not stored explicitely in a player, but computed on the
	fly the /obj/racemaster.

	The Adventurers Guild uses the 'general level' for
	her own level structure. 


INITIAL IDEAS by Deepthought:

	Some ideas about the Nightfall II level system

	Idea: A new player is born randomly in a village. Villages are
	linked by streets and railways (balloons?...). There are
	dangerous realms  inbetween. These areas form the "Homeland",
	which is a more or less well known civiliced area.

	Players of higher levels can leave the Homelands over/through
	the Great Mountains, over the ocean, through the Big Desert...

	There are castles (easy to install in a specific domain) which
	are similar to the real castles (mansions) of Nightfall I, but
	part of a domain. Several wizards may also plan a common
	landscape between  towns, perhaps containing a town. And,
	there may be also formed domains in the outer unknown areas
	which might become more known as time passes. 

	I'm thinking about an area of 1000x1000 km for the Homelands,
	to give you an idea about the size, this is roughly a square
	around Germany. A domain might have a size of about 100x100
	km. So there could be 100 Domains in the Homelands...

	Brainstorming about the challenges to a player:

	1) Learn about mudding. Explore the village, test the killing
	   abilities on some small animals, well, something like the
	   adventurer park.
	   Maybe solve a beginners quest to get the hang of it.

	2) Journey through the Homelands. Visit other cities, visit
	   castles, join one of the many guilds in the cities or in a
	   deep forest. Solve some  quests, learn to cast spells
	   and/or fighting.

	3) Go into the unknown. Buy a ship and sail over the ocean.
	   Ride over the Devils pass over the Great Mountains with
	   lots of evil creatures. Visit the temple of the Evil Mad
	   God, haunted by dangerous undeads...
	   Solve some harder quests.

	4) Go into Hell or on the Olymp. Solve epic quests which
	   perhaps require a team to solve (Spells required, Fighting
	   skills only required, thiefing skills, ...), maybe other
	   worlds (insert your dream here).

	5) Solve an "ultimate quest". Might be guild related, or a
	   constantly evolving quest with always a new part after
	   someone completes it, ideas welcome.. Should require some
	   experience (What scale should we use?)

	6) Seer, Hero, with new (quasi wizard) abilities like
	   unlimited teleport, unlimited emotes (echo, echoall) people
	   etc.

	7) Learner, Apprentice Wizard. Read access to the mudlib.
	   Clone, destruct.  Must be approved by a wizard who also
	   helps the new Apprentice Wizard (Similar to SPONSOR, but
	   more secure).
	   Might also be visiting Gods from other muds who are
	   interested in the mudlib.

	8) Wizard. Must join a domain with the approvement of the Domain-Lord.
	   The Domain Lord is responsible for the wizard and should help him
	   with building, as should the other wizards of the domain do.

	9) Domain Lord. Ruler of one Domain. Only with approval of an
	   Archwizard possible. Should have an initial plan about the
	   domain if it is to be founded or "elected" by the members
	   of the domain, if an old Lord leaves. Has write access to
	   all files of his domain. 

	10) Archwizard. Without own domain (probably). Similar to
	    Nightfall I, perhaps fewer archwizards. Specialized for
	    certain areas. Have write access to all files, except
	    security. Lords and Archwizards should work together to
	    define and implement specific ideas. 

	11) Head of Chamber of Lords: Speaker of all Domain Lords, to
	    coordinate activities over more than two domains. Might
	    change in regular or irregular intervals (elections,
	    automatically,... ?) 
	
	12) Head of Archwizards: Same idea as for the Lords:
	    Coordinate activities over several fields.

	xx) Gods? Sourcerers? People who hack the gamedriver source
	    and do what else is necessary for running Nightfall.

	Wizlevel Group Remarks
	  0       1-5  Players, Abilities determined through player
		       object properties
	 1-9       6   Seer, supernatural abilities 
	10-19      7   Learner, "Pilgrims"
	20-29      8   Wizard
	30-39      9   Domain Lord
	40-49     10   Archmage,-wizard, maximum file access permissions
	50-59     11   Head of Chamber of Lords
	60-69     12   Head of Chamber of Archmages
	 xxx      xx   God
